what is chorizo?
Spicy ground or chopped pork sausage
what is the difference between Mexican and Spanish Chorizo?
Mexican chorizo is seasoned with vinegar and chile peppers but Spanish chorizo uses garlic and smoked paprika
what tacos do you have with Eggs?
Bean & Egg, Bacon & Egg, Chorizo & Egg, Potato & Egg, Ham & Egg, Country Sausage & Egg, Huevo a la Mexicana, Migas Taco, Machacado & Egg
What is chilaquiles?
They are made with corn tortilla pieces that are fried, cooked in salsa, and sprinkled with cheese
What is machacado?
It is shredded dried and salted beef.
What are your specialty tacos?
Papas con Chorizo, Papa Ranchero, Chorizo a la Mexicana, Chilaquiles Taco, Taco Special , Super Taco
Do you have barbacoa?
Barbacoa Taco is served on Saturday and Sunday only.
What are antojitos?
They are snacks.
What antojitos do you have?
Nachos (topped with Beans, Cheese & Jalapenos), Super Nachos (Topped with Beans, Cheese, Picadillo, Guacamole, Sour Cream & Jalapenos), Chile con Queso, Queso Flameado and Quesadillas (Beef or Chicken)
What is picadillo?
Ground beef cooked with diced tomotaros, onions, garlic, salt and pepper.
Why do the Tacos come with two tortillias each?
One tortilla is not enough to hold the juice goodness.
What is the purpose of the radishes? 
They add bitterness and crunch yum yum.
Just give me one tortilla.
One tortilla instead of two is like Lucy Ricardo without Ethel Mertz.
why are their two tortillas per taco?
 It is like Ralph Cramden without Ed Norton. It just isn't right to have only one!
Is this a taqueria?
No, it is a gringo taco stand!!
Is this a taco stand?
No! it is a taqueria, McDonalds is down a block.
Is this a real taco stand?
Yes! see the radishes, pickled carrots and jalapenos!!
Is that Thousand Island dressing?
NO! it is Salsa Roja having fun with crema!
Will a day without tacos kill you?
No…but why risk it?
Will you share your taco?
There is no we in taco!
What are your favorite things?
All I care about is tacos... and like 3 people.
What is a balanced diet?
A taco for each hand!
What is the best way to live?
Like everyday is Taco Tuesday!
Don't eat so many tacos.
I don't need that kind of negativity in my life.
are you sad?
You can't be sad when you have a taco!
what is your favorite yoga move?
Inhale tacos, exhale negativity.
Do you like to hunt?
NO, I don't even know where tacos live man.
What is a balanced meal?
A taco chased by tequila!!
tell me a pun
Taco cat spelled backward is taco cat.
Do you want my opinion?
Only if your opinion is we go get tacos.
Do you want to talk about it?
I don't wanna taco about it.
What can I do to make you happy?
Make me a taco.
what is a baja fish taco?
it has cabbage and crema
what makes tacos de Cabeza so special?
Cheek meat.